Devops Engineer
Shashikanth Reddy J
Profile : Devops Skill (Git, Jenkins, AWS,  Chef, Puppet and  Docker)
	Email ID: - shashikanth.devops@gmail.com
       :+91- 9989434374

Successful in ensuring an effective performance in operations and accomplishment of individual or group targets in a competitive scenario
	
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

	Having 6+ years of IT Experience with more than 4+ years as a DevOps Engineer in the field of Software Configuration Management, Containerization and Cloud Platform
	Having experience on using version control tool Git and its web repositories in Github for source code management system.
	Experienced in branching, tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GitHub
	Hands on experience in setting up and configuring Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery tool like Jenkins.
	Having experience in configuration management tools Chef and Puppet.
	Managed servers in both physical and Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Configuration Management Tools like Chef and Puppet
	Experience on chef tool for creating cookbooks and writing recipes, creating roles, Bootstrapped Nodes to automate infrastructure
	Experience in Created Puppet Manifests and Modules to automate system operations
	Experience in Containerization tool like Docker and built Docker Images using Docker files. 
	Experience on using Docker for successful setup of Dev & Test environment for Developers and Testers by using Docker Build & Compose
	As a DevOps engineer, Experience in  Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 Bucket, Elastic IP’s, RDS, EBS Volumes, VPC, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI and Security Groups on AWS
	CloudWatch for monitoring server metrics, creating alarms & integrating with auto scaling
	Experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) processes.
	Knowledge in creating & maintaining the infrastructure for different test Environments and provisioning them using Vagrant and Virtual-box.
	Good Experience on operating systems like windows, Unix/Linux.
	Experience in scripting languages Python and Shell Scripting 
	Have excellent problem solving, time management skills, ability to work independently or as part of a team.


Professional Experience:

Organization	  Role/Designation	Duration 
Infosys Private Ltd., Hyderabad	   DevOps Engineer	May 2013 - Till date
GLS Systems, Bangalore	   Software Engineer 	Jan 2011 – April 2013


Technical Arsenal:

Configuration Management and DevOps Tool	Chef, Puppet, Docker, Jenkins, AWS, Git & Vagrant
Programming, Scripting Languages	Shell Script and Python.
Database Server	MySQL
Operating Systems	Linux/Unix (RedHat, CentOS, Ubuntu) and Windows
Application Servers	Apache Web Server, Tomcat

Academics & Certification:

	Diploma in Information Technology from LSBC, London, United Kingdom, in the year 2009
	B. Tech (E.C.E) from JNTU University, Hyderabad, in the year 2008.

Projects Profile:


Project 3	
Client	StepStone, London, United Kingdom 
Role	Devops Engineer
Environment	Chef, Puppet, Jenkins, Docker, AWS and Git.
Project Overview	StepStone is a European online job board, including Jobsite and Total Jobs, in the United Kingdom and Ireland. It was founded in 1996. Its objective is to match candidates with companies. It has 900 employees in nine countries and works with small companies and global corporations throughout all industry sectors for the recruitment of qualified specialists and executive staff
                 The Grid setup consists in a Dockerfile, which creates the Central Grid Hub and the nodes. 
Responsibilities and activities as a DevOps  Engineer		Developing Chef Cookbooks, Puppet Modules, and Dockerfile for different scenarios to manage the infrastructure and integrating with CI / CD (Jenkins).
	Responsible for installing Jenkins master and slave nodes. 
	Configured Git with Jenkins and schedule jobs using Webhook option
	Used configuration management tools like Chef and Puppet to deploy consistent infrastructure code across multiple environments. 
	Created Chef Cookbooks and Roles those kickoff post-install scripts. 
	Used Chef Cookbooks and Shell scripts to automate the deployment process in to the Linux environment. 
	Experience in Created Puppet Manifests and Modules to automate system operations
	Manage the configurations of more than 40 servers using Puppet
	Configure, Monitor and Automate Amazon Web Services. 
	Creating and Managing the Amazon Web Services using EC2, Elastic IP’s, RDS, EBS, VPC, ELB, Auto-Scaling, AMI, CloudWatch, and Security groups on AWS
	Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket for storage and backup on AWS. 
	Worked on infrastructure with Docker Containerization. 
	Collaborated with development support teams to setup a continuous delivery environment with the use of Docker. 
	Assisted end-to-end release process from the planning of release content through to actual release deployment to production. 
	Deployed the build artifacts into environments like QA, UAT and production according to the build life cycle. 
	Automated the build and release management process including monitoring changes between releases. 
	Developed and implemented software release management strategies for various applications according to Agile process. 
	Good experience in working with a team together to deliver best outputs in given time frames.
	Supported the application in production and worked closely with off-shore teams.




Project 2	
Client	ENBRIDGE (Energy and Utility), Canada
Role	Devops Engineer
Environment	Chef, AWS, Jenkins, Git, Linux and Windows
Project Overview	EDF Energy is a leading integrated UK energy company. We supply gas, electricity and related services to residential and business customers and operate and manage a flexible portfolio of coal, gas and oil-fired power stations. We also manage a portfolio of cogeneration plan. 
Responsibilities and activities as a DevOps  Engineer		Software Configuration management (Automate CI & CD pipe using Chef, Jenkins & GIT). 
	Responsible for tagging and maintain code on version control GIT.



	Configured Jenkins Jobs, install plugins for generating Project artifacts. 

	Setups the Nexus Repository for deploy the artifacts. 


	Responsible for creating Builds and Deployments Planes. 

	Performed deployment of War files in Tomcat application servers using Shell script.

	Automate the build Process Using Jenkins jobs. 
	Installed Chef related packages like chefdk, chef-client and Chef-Server
	Created Chef Cookbooks for test automation and converting Cookbooks to Roles for scalability and reusability. 

	Verify Deployments logs to check for successful deployments
	Creating and Managing the cloud services like EC2, VPC, Subnets, Internet Gateways, S3, ELB, RDS (MySQL), Security Groups, Cloud Watch, on AWS
	Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket for storage and backup on AWS. 

	



Project 1	
Client	ENGAGEPOINT, USA
Role	DevOps Engineer
Environment	Chef, Jenkins, AWS, Git, Linux and Windows
Project Overview	EngagePoint™ is helping government agencies and commercial insurers meet the complex challenges of healthcare reform and system modernization. As a fast-growing healthcare software and IT service. We actively apply the philosophy of reuse, modularity, and separation of concerns to our software design and development. We create loosely-coupled, highly-integrated products and solutions and standardize nonfunctional components by creating common services
Responsibilities and activities as a DevOps  Engineer 		Installing all Linux flavors OS, Configuring and binding system with domain.
	Installing applications on Linux flavors.
	RPM package management, installing, upgrading and removing.
	Installation of Chef related packages like chefdk, chef-client
	Involved in writing Chef Cookbooks for test automation
	Involved in Configuring chef server, creating roles, bootstrapping a client machine
	Involved in setting up own chef server
	Creating  cloud services like EC2,  Elastic Load Balancer, Security Groups and Cloud Watch on AWS
	Taking instance backups as Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and launching these when we need similar servers.
	
